# Further TPM Project development investigation

If we are going to plan further project development, we have to solve issues 
that appears in current work with project. The main issues are:
+ Lack of RAM memory in CPU
+ Rather low frequency of MCU clock

In order to overcome that issues we have to choose more powerful microcontroller.
Planned further implementation of LPC protocol on MCU require higher clock 
frequency (above 100 Mhz). In current project static code analysis shows RAM
memory occupancy above 96 percent.

## Current project code analysis in terms of hardware dependence

We start project code analysis (Nucleo-L476RG) with basic files defining hardware
components.
Catalog "Src" - basic files:

1. system_stm32l4xx.c

In this file are defined major hardware parameters: clock frequency, SRAM, FPU.
It can be generated by "STM32CubeMX" software for different MCU model from STM32
family.
2. stm32l4xx_hal_msp.c

In this file is located code for initialisation of hardware modules and peripherals.
It can be generated by "STM32CubeMX" software for different MCU model from STM32
family

3. stm32l4xx_it.c

This file includes hardware components and peripherals interrupt handlers routines.
In this file is located code for initialisation of hardware modules and peripherals.
It can be generated by "STM32CubeMX" software for different MCU model from STM32
family.

4. main.c

This file is application starter and includes also hardware initialisation
procedures. Here are hardware initialisation functions:

```text
void SystemClock_Config(void);
static void MX_GPIO_Init(void);
static void MX_RNG_Init(void);
static void MX_RTC_Init(void);
static void MX_USART2_UART_Init(void);
```

These functions can be generated by "STM32CubeMX" software for different MCU 
model from STM32 family.

Remaining code files in this catalog are related to USB CDC device and could be
removed after going on SPI or LPC protocol.

Catalog "startup" is generated automaticaly during creating new project by 
"STM32CubeMX".

Catalog "Inc" contains header files for major code files in project:

+ stm32l4xx_it.h
+ stm32l4xx_hal_conf.h
+ main.h

These files can be generated by "STM32CubeMX" software for different MCU 
model from STM32 family. There also are located header files for USB device,
which could be removed removed after going on SPI or LPC protocol. In sub-catalogs

+ Platform
+ TPMCmd
+ TPMDevice

there are located header files related to reference implementation of TPM 
(Microsoft) - these files are not dependent of hardware.

In "Drivers" catalog are located basic hardware layer drivers:

+ CMSIS
+ STM32L4xx_HAL_Driver

These catalogs are automaticaly copied to project during creating of project.
In the case of choosing of different MCU (not STM32 family) the CMSIS drivers also
would be copied to project, but HAL library can be quite different.

“Middlewares” catalog includes major implementation of TPM (Microsoft company)
and also implemantation of USB device. USB library code is located in:

+ ST → STM32_USB_Device_Library

TPM implementation is located in sub-catalogs:

+ Platform
+ TPMCmd
+ TPMDevice
+ wolfcrypt

TPM implementation is independent from hardware.

"Includes" catalod includes headers related to CMSIS library, HAL library, USB 
device and TPM. This code is related of hardware and might be most difficult to 
write for different MCU.

## Target hardware platform for TPM (ARM) project

The major difficulty for choosing new hardware platform (MCU) is current 
unavailability of semiconductors, so the major criterion is availability of 
particular MCU. New MCU have to let overcome issues described in the beginning of
this document. In this purpose we made such assumptiuons for new MCU:

+ MCU : ARM-Cortex-M4
+ clock frequency from 168 Mhz to 200 Mhz
+ LQFP64 case
+ SRAM amount from 192 KB to 256 KB

We choose device with ARM Cortex-M4 from "GigaDevice" company. Here is link to 
search engine on "Gigadevice" WWW page:

[High performance GD32 ARM Cirtex-M4 Microcontrollers](https://www.gigadevice.com/products/microcontrollers/gd32/arm-cortex-m4/high-performance-line/?fwp_processor_type=cortex-m4&fwp_microcontrollers_product_line=high-performance&fwp_sram_memory=192k%2C256k&fwp_io_pins=51.00%2C69.00)

The best candidate for new MCU seems this particular device:

[GD32F425RGT6](https://www.gigadevice.com/microcontroller/gd32f425rgt6/)

The "GigaDevice" company also provides basic firmware: CMSIS library and few tools
(for example programer, profiler). The reference IDE/Compiler for these GD32 MCU
is "Keil uvision" ("Segger Studio for ARM" is also on list). There is also hardware
programmer/debugger (JTAG) available.

There is one difficulty with this GD32F4xx MCU family, there is not available "HAL"
library for these devices. "Gigadevice" company id providing instead "HAL" libraries
"Standard Peripheral" libray. "Standard Peripheral" libray was higher-level hardware
abstraction library, before ST company write newer "HAL" library. "Standard Peripheral"
library id from several years deprecated and what worse it's API is different fro "HAL"
API. This fact has impact on time estitmate for re-writing code for new MCU - all
hardware dependent code have to be re-writing. So time estimates will be higher.